# Resource-optimization-for-Sustainable-Manufacturing
Sustainable manufacturing depends on effective energy management because it reduces expenses and environmental effects. The goal of this project is to employ prescriptive analytics and machine learning to forecast and optimize manufacturing energy use. In order to create predictive models that direct energy conservation, the study analyses time-series data on variables such as reactive power and CO2 emissions to find patterns in energy utilization. Three machine learning models— Random Forest, Support Vector Machine (SVM), and Linear Regression—were used; Random Forest was the most accurate and thus best suited for this use case. In addition to forecasts, the study uses optimization methods, such as fuzzy logic, stochastic programming, and linear programming, to offer practical suggestions. When precise data is not available, fuzzy logic handles imperfect data inputs for flexible optimization, while stochastic programming deals with price and demand uncertainties to allow for flexible decision-making. When combined, these prescriptive models improve optimization by providing methods for lowering energy usage while taking imprecision and variability into consideration. By combining machine learning with cutting- edge optimization techniques to increase energy efficiency, this project supports the transition toward more responsible and sustainable industrial practices and advances sustainable manufacturing, which is in line with Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 12 for responsible consumption and production.
